# snow-pack-density-with-R

To monitor our source of water in relation to snow pack density, countries all over the world operate snow gauges to monitor snow density and flooding. By detecting the number of gamma rays passed through polyethylene molecules, the snow gauge converts the measurement of gamma ray photon counts into the gauge measurement known as “gain”. The operation uses 9 polyethylene blocks of varying densities with 10 middle measurements of their densities. Together, these tools can help us detect the snow density and therefore analyze the current water supply.

However, the snow gauge seasonally requires calibration due to instrument wear and radioactive source decay. In this lab, we aim to use linear regression to convert gain into density while the gauge is in calibration. We ask, how do we create the best regression line to the gain data and develop a procedure for predicting gain with confidence intervals? In our analysis, we fit a regression line as well as higher degree polynomial models and discuss fit accuracy in relation to errors in density measurements. We analyze the effects of overfitting the model and conclude that a model degree of 2 is the best fit. Then, we fit an appropriate confidence interval around our least squares line that can be used to make interval estimates for the snow-pack density from gain measurements. In the end, we found that if our data is scaled logarithmically we can fit the transformed data with a linear regressor and then build 95% confidence intervals around the linear regression line that will predict where new data points will occur.
